---
---

# Chaṭṭha Saṅgāyana Tipiṭaka Kit

This repository contains a restructured version of the Chaṭṭha Saṅgāyana Tipiṭaka (CST) prepared by J.R. Bhaddacak. The raw data kept here are the outcome of deliberate editing done manually. The editing includes:

- Reorganizing the collection, making it easier to find related texts
- Restructuring some texts by fixing the hierarchy of headers, making them easier to program and navigate
- Checking paragraph numbers and making them more systematically consistent (This is important because text relationships heavily depend on paragraph numbers)
- Fixing obvious typos (if any, the fixes will be reported)
- Removing some minor texts

> Note that there is no textual editing in the raw data, except some heading insertions, number fixes, and typo fixes (if any). This means the text is mostly identical to the original, but the structure and naming scheme are different.

To make the product versatile in uses, the program used for rendering the output is also exposed, so that those who have specific purposes can tinker the tool to fulfill their needs. This is the sense made by **Kit** here. The program has the following functions:

- Converting original XML to fixed XML, HTML, headless HTML, and plain text
- Removing references to publications embedded in the text
- Fixing ’nti (it should be n’ti not ’nti)
- Fixing wrong characters
- Fixing quotation marks
- Fixing spaces, etc.

The available output formats are as follows:

1. **XML** The raw XML data will be operated with minimal fixes and new XML files are generated.
2. **HTML** The output will be full HTML with predefined structure, not the transformation from XSL. The user can change the structure by editing the sed-scripts. This can be opened directly in a browser.
3. **TXT** This means headless HTML, text format with some metadata preserved in tags. This format is not proper to be used directly, but it is suitable to be processed programmatically.
4. **GZ** This is the compressed version of TXT format, mainly used by [bhaddacak.github.io/cst](https://bhaddacak.github.io/cst).
5. **BARE** This is the real plain text format. All tags are removed, as well as the text structure.

> Apart from the raw XML data, the repository only hosts the GZ formatted files because they are used by the reader in [bhaddacak.github.io](https://bhaddacak.github.io/cst). Other formats can be generated by the program provided in the user's computer (see below).

## How to make CST data

Once this repository is cloned to the user's computer, the CST data in a specific format can be generated by the program called `makecst`. The only prerequisite is that you must have UNIX-like environment to run the program. Specifically, bash, GNU sed and gzip have to be present. This is common to most Linux distributions. Other types of OS have to be set up to meet this requirement. For example, in Windows `Cygwin` can be used, and in macOS `Homebrew` can be used.

There are two use cases described as follows:

### 1. Converting an individual file

To make an individual CST file, you have to know your target. This can be studied in `cstdata.json`. Once you have a file in mind, type this in the program's root directory:

```
$ ./makecst <output-format> <file>
```

The &lt;output-format&gt; can be either **xml**, **html**, **txt**, **gz**, and **bare**. And &lt;file&gt; must be the raw XML file provided. For example, to generate the Bhikkhunīvibhaṅga in HTML, type this to the (bash) shell:

```
$ ./makecst html raw/cst-vm-biv.xml
```

This will create `cst-vm-biv.html` in the program's root directory. Other formats can be done likewise.

### 2. Converting the whole collection

The entire conversion can be done easily by the following command, where &lt;output-format&gt; is the same as mentioned above:

```
$ ./makecst <output-format>
```

For example, this will make a new collection of fixed XML in directory `xml`. (Other formats have the output directory correspondingly.)

```
$ ./makecst xml
```

## Stat tools

When data are clean, doing statistical analysis is quite simple. We have two type of analyses here: character-wise and word-wise. Tools used in this purpose make use of GNU sed and gawk. So the right programs have to be present. (As a matter of fact, sed and awk have several vendors. The author uses specifically the GNU versions.)

### Character-stat analysis

This means finding the occurrences of all characters used in documents. This may not seem useful for most users, but for the author this can help finding unexpected characters. After this analysis, several texts underwent refined editing. The main programs for this are `gencharstat` and `showcharstat`. Before using these tools, 'gz' data have to be ready. The use is simple as follows:

```
$ ./gencharstat
$ ./showcharstat
```

Once the character-stat is generated by the first command, it is no need to run it again, except when the data are changed. The main option of `showcharstat` is text group selection. For example, to show only stat in the Vinaya, use the following command. See further information in `./showcharstat -h`.

```
$ ./showcharstat -t v
```

### Word-stat analysis

Unlike character-wise analysis, word analysis in more useful. Parallel to character-stat tools, we have `genwordstat` and `showwordstat` here, and the precondition is the same. We have to create word-stat first by this command:

```
$ ./genwordstat
```

The main job of this program is to tokenize all terms with their frequency in all files. By default, all terms are normalized to lower cases. If capitalized terms are needed, use `--keep-cap` option. Likewise, redactional notes are included by default. To reverse these, use `--exclude-notes` option. See more information in `./genwordstat -h`

Then we can show the summary of the whole collection by this command:

```
$ ./showwordstat
```

We can select a specific text group as above like `./showwordstat -t v` or we can save all output into a file by this command:

```
$ ./showwordstat -s
```

If you want to see the longest terms, try this command:

```
$ ./showwordstat -l
```

See some output from word-stat in *Statistical summary* below. For more information on use see the program's help, `./showwordstat -h`.

## Search tools

When the word-stat is available, it is possible to make a search program. Here, a simple search tool is implemented, just using basic Unix/Linux tools. Before applying a search, an index file (technically called 'inverted file') has to be created first. To make the index of the whole collection, use the following command.

```
$ ./genindex
```

This can take some minutes. When created, the overall index file is around 30 MB in size, plus a document-info file. If a more specific text group is needed, you can use `-t` option, for example `./genindex -t vm` (indexing only the main Vinaya). For more information, see `./genindex -h`.

Once an index file has been generated, we can issue a search command with the compulsory `-q` option, like the example below.

```
$ ./search -q "dhammacakka"
```

By default, the search uses the index of the whole collection. We can use a specific index by `-i` option, for example `./search -q "dhammacakka" -i vm` (searching in the main Vinaya index).

With a larger index file, we can filter the output by showing only the group we need using `-o` option, like this example.

```
$ ./search -q "dhammacakka" -o vm
```

This search uses the overall index, but shows only the result from the main Vinaya.

There are some other options you can see further by `./search -h`. For some Pāli characters, you can use Vethuis-like input as follows:

```
=a ā      =i ī      =u ū      ;n ṅ      ~n ñ
,t ṭ      ,d ḍ      ,n ṇ      ,l ḷ      ,m ṃ
```

To avoid a clash with regular expressions, metacharacters are not used here. And this means you can search with regular expressions (with some limitations on the use of escape sequences). For example, searching the whole word of 'adhiṭṭhānā' or 'adhiṭṭhānaṃ' can be put in this way.

```
$ ./search -q "^adhi,t+h=an(=a|a,m)$"
```

Note that when RegExp metacharacters are used, always put the query in quotes. And if multiple terms are searched, the quotes (either single or double) are mandatory.

> For the technical details of the implementation, you may need some knowledge of Information Storage and Retrieval, particularly on the Vector Space Model and TF-IDF. A suggested reading is David A. Grossman and Ophir Frieder, 2004, *Information Retrieval: Algorithms and Heuristics*, 2nd Edition, Springer. A good example is in pp. 15-18.

## Other tools

Apart from the main programs described above, there are also some small programs that can be useful somehow to developers.

The first is the sutta information generator, `gensuttainfo`. This works on the 'gz' data of the three main nikāyas, i.e., D, M and S. It can extract the name and number of suttas (for D and M), or of saṃyuttas (for S), and the corresponding paragraph numbers. The output of this program is `suttainfo.json`. This information can be used to translate the references to the rough referring method, which identifies a sutta/saṃyutta by a number in its series. By this simple counting, we have DN 1-34, MN 1-152, and SN 1-56. This system can ease Western learners to some extent, but it is at odds and incompatible with the traditional way of arrangement.

If `suttainfo.json` is enough in uses, it is no need to run the program. But the users can generate the file themselves by entering the following command. This tool makes use of a Perl script. So, Perl also has to be present in the system.

```
$ ./gensuttainfo
```

If `suttainfo.json` already exists, the program will not create a new one. The old file has to be removed or renamed first. Or you can overwrite the old file by adding `--force` to the command.

Other minor tools are used for error checking, mainly by the author. So, there are few chances that they will be used. If you are curious, examine the programs yourself. They are just simple shell scripts making use of grep.

## The new structure explained

### External structure

Texts are arranged into 4 main groups in the original structure of CST, namely *Mūla* (main texts), *Aṭṭhakathā* (commentaries), *Ṭīkā* (subcommentaries), and *Añña* (others). Within the first three groups, the three baskets are divided, hence *Vinayapiṭaka*, *Suttapiṭaka*, and *Abhidhammapiṭaka*. By this arrangement, there are totally 10 subgroups as shown below.

```
CST (original)
 |
 |- Mūla
 |   |- Vinayapiṭaka
 |   |- Suttapiṭaka
 |   |- Abhidhammapiṭaka
 |
 |- Aṭṭhakathā
 |   |- Vinayapiṭaka
 |   |- Suttapiṭaka
 |   |- Abhidhammapiṭaka
 |
 |- Ṭīkā
 |   |- Vinayapiṭaka
 |   |- Suttapiṭaka
 |   |- Abhidhammapiṭaka
 |
 |- Añña

```

The relations between main texts, commentaries, and subcommentaries are maintained roughly by file-naming scheme (mainly using running numbers), without other metadata available. This causes difficulty when we deal with the texts both by manual selections and by programs.

Another problem is sometimes the line between main texts, commentaries, and subcommentaries is unclear, and classification is too rigid in some cases. For example, Bhikkhupātimokkha and Bhikkhunīpātimokkha are put unfittingly into ṭīkā group.

From the viewpoint of researchers and Tipiṭaka learners, not curators, the structure should facilitate the study, not to make it confusing. So, it should be modified to serve the learning purpose as the highest priority. The new structure of CST proposed here can be described below.

```
CST (restructured)
 |
 |- Vinayapiṭakaṃ
 |   |- Mūlaganthā (main texts)
 |   |- Aṭṭhakathā Ṭīkā ca (exegetical works)
 |
 |- Suttantapiṭakaṃ
 |   |- Mūlaganthā (main texts)
 |   |- Aṭṭhakathā Ṭīkā ca (exegetical works)
 |
 |- Abhidhammapiṭakaṃ
     |- Mūlaganthā (main texts)
     |- Aṭṭhakathā Ṭīkā ca (exegetical works)

```

By this way of arrangement, related texts are put together. They can be linked by their relation using information provided. The information of data (metadata) is kept separately in `cstinfo.json`. This can help programmers dealing with the collection substantially.

Another point that the new structure addresses is the name of texts for referencing. We should have a consistent way to make references. With a well-organized structure, we can refer to them systematically (and it should be easy). To cope with this, each separate item of text is counted as a book. And each book has a unique name that can be used in referring.

To be precise, the structure of a book is shaped by textual content and paragraph numbers. Normally, if a new series of numbers is introduced, it will be separated as a new book. Only when the text has clearly distinct content, it will be a book on its own even if it uses numbers form another series. [Bhikkhunīvibhaṅga](https://bhaddacak.github.io/cst?biv) is a marked example in this case. However, in rare cases, one book may utilize multiple number series, for instance, Bhikkhupātimokkha and Bhikkhunīpātimokkha.

### Internal structure

To be familiar with the data, let us see briefly how CST XML data are structured. There are only 4 tags in use, namely **&lt;p&gt;**, **&lt;hi&gt;**, **&lt;note&gt;**, and **&lt;pb&gt;**. The &lt;p&gt; tag is extensively used in the body of text with a variety of format by using **rend** attribute. Here are the list of original &lt;p&gt; tag's rendering options: nikaya, book, chapter, title, subhead, subsubhead, bodytext, hangnum, indent, unindented, centre, gatha1, gatha2, gatha3, and gathalast.

The &lt;hi&gt; tag has less use. It mostly defines the boldface portion of text, also marks paragraph numbers and dots (periods after the paragraph numbers). The &lt;note&gt; tag is used only for redactional notes. And the &lt;pb&gt; tag is about the data of references to publications.

Here are the treatments for the new structure:

1. Several rendering options are added for &lt;p&gt;, i.e., **part**, **endpart**, **group**, **endgroup**, **subgroup**, **endsubgroup**, and **strong**. The first three pairs are used to group headings together by not upsetting the hierarchical structure of headings (*part* is for *chapter*, *group* is for *title*, *subgroup* is for *subhead*). To get what this means, see Pācittiya section in [Bhikkhuvibhaṅga 2](https://bhaddacak.github.io/cst?buv2). In case group headings are contiguous within their parent, the 'end' part may be omitted. The last one just marks the part as a heading but not in the hierarchical structure. These are incorporated into the text manually.
2. Because the hierarchical structure of headings in the original is unsystematic and inconsistent, using the data programmatically is difficult. So, the massive changes of headings have been done manually in this manner:
    - Only *nikaya* and *book* appear at the top of the file (or a little below), not in other places. These are rendered as &lt;h2&gt; in HTML/TXT output.
    - *Chapter* is the first level of the hierarchy. This means if the document has sections, *chapter* has to be present first to be the base for lower levels (*title*, *subhead*, and so on). This is rendered as &lt;h3&gt; in HTML/TXT output.
    - *Title* is the second level. This is the base of *subhead* and rendered as &lt;h4&gt; in HTML/TXT output.
    - *Subhead* and *subsubhead* (rare) are the third and fourth level respectively. These are rendered as &lt;h5&gt; and &lt;h6&gt; in HTML/TXT output.
    - To stress, there will never be a lower level without a higher one. For example, *subhead* will never be present without *title*, so never *title* without *chapter*. If an off-structure heading has to be used at all, it should be of *strong* (see above).
3. The data presented in the &lt;pb&gt; tag will be all removed after rendition. Those who want to use these data have to resort to the original XML.

Other noted renditions in HTML/TXT output are:

- The &lt;note&gt; tag data are converted to text in square brackets ([...]). No tag is used.
- All rendering options, except *bodytext* and *hangnum*, are converted to &lt;div&gt; tag with corresponding class names.
- The tag of *bodytext* and *hangnum* (mere paragraph number) are removed in TXT output, but converted to &lt;p&gt; in HTML.
- The &lt;hi&gt; tag with *bold* is changed to &lt;b&gt; tag. Other options are removed.
- Only in the text body do &lt;b&gt; tags appear, whereas &lt;strong&gt; tags are used only with headings.

One marked characteristic of TXT output is paragraph numbers are only numbers appear at the beginning of the lines. These numbers can be extracted easily by programmatic means.

## The tree of text relationships

Showing a tree-like structure of text relationships can give a quick picture and better understanding. So, the following diagrams are added here. This part also appears in [CST page](https://bhaddacak.github.io/cstpage). For some more information, including all abbreviations and a referencing guide, please see that page.

```
============
Vinayapiṭaka
============
  |- Bhikkhuvibhaṅga 1 (Buv1)
  |   |- Samantapāsādikā 1 (Sp1)
  |       |- Sāratthadīpanī 1 (Sd1)
  |       |- Vimativinodanī 1 (Vmv1)
  |       |- Vajirabuddhi 1 (Vjb1)
  |
  |- Bhikkhuvibhaṅga 2 (Buv2)
  |   |- Samantapāsādikā 2 (Sp2)
  |       |- Sāratthadīpanī 2 (Sd2)
  |       |- Vimativinodanī 2 (Vmv2)
  |       |- Vajirabuddhi 2 (Vjb2)
  |       |- Pācityādiyojanā (Pc-y)
  |
  |- Bhikkhunīvibhaṅga (Biv)
  |   |- Samantapāsādikā 3 (Sp3)
  |       |- Sāratthadīpanī 3 (Sd3)
  |       |- Vimativinodanī 3 (Vmv3)
  |       |- Bhikkhunīvibhaṅgayojanā (Biv-y)
  |
  |- Mahāvagga (Mv)
  |   |- Samantapāsādikā 4 (Sp4)
  |       |- Sāratthadīpanī 4 (Sd4)
  |       |- Vimativinodanī 4 (Vmv4)
  |       |- Vajirabuddhi 4 (Vjb4)
  |       |- Mahāvaggayojanā (Mv-y)
  |
  |- Cūḷavagga (Cv)
  |   |- Samantapāsādikā 5 (Sp5)
  |       |- Sāratthadīpanī 5 (Sd5)
  |       |- Vimativinodanī 5 (Vmv5)
  |       |- Vajirabuddhi 5 (Vjb5)
  |       |- Cūḷavaggayojanā (Cv-y)
  |
  |- Parivāra (Pvr)
  |   |- Samantapāsādikā 6 (Sp6)
  |       |- Sāratthadīpanī 6 (Sd6)
  |       |- Vimativinodanī 6 (Vmv6)
  |       |- Vajirabuddhi 6 (Vjb6)
  |       |- Parivārayojanā (Pvr-y)
  |
  |- Bhikkhupātimokkha (Bup)
  |   |- Kaṅkhāvitaraṇī (Kkh1)
  |       |- Kaṅkhāvitaraṇī-purāṇaṭīkā (Kkh-pt1)
  |       |- Kaṅkhāvitaraṇī-abhinavaṭīkā (Kkh-nt1)
  |
  |- Bhikkhunīpātimokkha (Bip)
      |- Kaṅkhāvitaraṇī (Kkh2)
          |- Kaṅkhāvitaraṇī-purāṇaṭīkā (Kkh-pt2)
          |- Kaṅkhāvitaraṇī-abhinavaṭīkā (Kkh-nt2)

  ----------------------------------------
  Independent Vinaya Exegeses/Compositions
  ----------------------------------------
      |- Vinayasaṅgaha (Vns)
      |   |- Vinayālaṅkāra (Vnl)
      |
      |- Vinayavinicchaya (Vnv)
      |   |- Vinayavinicchayaṭīkā (Vnv-t)
      |
      |- Uttaravinicchaya (Utv)
      |   |- Uttaravinicchayaṭīkā (Utv-t)
      |
      |- Khuddasikkhā (Khds)
      |   |- Khuddasikkhā-purāṇaṭīkā (Khds-pt)
      |   |- Khuddasikkhā-abhinavaṭīkā (Khds-nt)
      |
      |- Mūlasikkhā (Mls)
          |- Mūlasikkhāṭīkā (Mls-t)

==============
Suttantapiṭaka
==============
  |- Dīghanikāya
  |   |
  |   |- Sīlakkhandhavagga (D1)
  |   |   |- Sumaṅgalavilāsinī 1 (Smv1)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Dīghanikāya) 1 (Lpd1)
  |   |       |- Sīlakkhandhavagga-abhinavaṭīkā (Sv-nt)
  |   |
  |   |- Mahāvagga (D2)
  |   |   |- Sumaṅgalavilāsinī 2 (Smv2)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Dīghanikāya) 2 (Lpd2)
  |   |
  |   |- Pāthikavagga (D3)
  |       |- Sumaṅgalavilāsinī 3 (Smv3)
  |           |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Dīghanikāya) 3 (Lpd3)
  |    
  |- Majjhimanikāya
  |   |
  |   |- Mūlapaṇṇāsa (M1)
  |   |   |- Papañcasūdanī 1 (Pps1)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Majjhimanikāya) 1 (Lpm1)
  |   |
  |   |- Majjhimapaṇṇāsa (M2)
  |   |   |- Papañcasūdanī 2 (Pps2)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Majjhimanikāya) 2 (Lpm2)
  |   |
  |   |- Uparipaṇṇāsa (M3)
  |       |- Papañcasūdanī 3 (Pps3)
  |           |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Majjhimanikāya) 3 (Lpm3)
  |    
  |- Saṃyuttanikāya
  |   |
  |   |- Sagāthāvagga (S1)
  |   |   |- Sāratthappakāsinī 1 (Srp1)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Saṃyuttanikāya) 1 (Lps1)
  |   |
  |   |- Nidānavagga (S2)
  |   |   |- Sāratthappakāsinī 2 (Srp1)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Saṃyuttanikāya) 2 (Lps2)
  |   |
  |   |- Khandhavagga (S3)
  |   |   |- Sāratthappakāsinī 3 (Srp1)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Saṃyuttanikāya) 3 (Lps3)
  |   |
  |   |- Saḷāyatanavagga (S4)
  |   |   |- Sāratthappakāsinī 4 (Srp4)
  |   |       |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Saṃyuttanikāya) 4 (Lps4)
  |   |
  |   |- Mahāvagga (S5)
  |       |- Sāratthappakāsinī 5 (Srp5)
  |           |- Līnatthappakāsinī (Saṃyuttanikāya) 5 (Lps5)
  |    
  |- Aṅguttaranikāya
  |   |
  |   |- Ekakanipāta (A1)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 1 (Mnp1)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 1 (Srm1)
  |   |
  |   |- Dukanipāta (A2)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 2 (Mnp2)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 2 (Srm2)
  |   |
  |   |- Tikanipāta (A3)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 3 (Mnp3)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 3 (Srm3)
  |   |
  |   |- Catukkanipāta (A4)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 4 (Mnp4)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 4 (Srm4)
  |   |
  |   |- Pañcakanipāta (A5)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 5 (Mnp5)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 5 (Srm5)
  |   |
  |   |- Chakkanipāta (A6)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 6 (Mnp6)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 6 (Srm6)
  |   |
  |   |- Sattakanipāta (A7)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 7 (Mnp7)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 7 (Srm7)
  |   |
  |   |- Aṭṭhakanipāta (A8)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 8 (Mnp8)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 8 (Srm8)
  |   |
  |   |- Navakanipāta (A9)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 9 (Mnp9)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 9 (Srm9)
  |   |
  |   |- Dasakanipāta (A10)
  |   |   |- Manorathapūraṇī 10 (Mnp10)
  |   |       |- Sāratthamañjūsā 10 (Srm10)
  |   |
  |   |- Ekādasakanipāta (A11)
  |       |- Manorathapūraṇī 11 (Mnp11)
  |           |- Sāratthamañjūsā 11 (Srm11)
  |
  |- Khuddakanikāya
      |
      |- Khuddakapāṭha (Khp)
      |   |- Khuddakapāṭha-aṭṭhakathā (Khp-a)
      |
      |- Dhammapada (Dhp)
      |   |- Dhammapada-aṭṭhakathā (Dhp-a)
      |
      |- Udāna (Ud)
      |   |- Udāna-aṭṭhakathā (Ud-a)
      |
      |- Itivuttaka (It)
      |   |- Itivuttaka-aṭṭhakathā (It-a)
      |
      |- Suttanipāta (Snp)
      |   |- Suttanipāta-aṭṭhakathā (Snp-a)
      |
      |- Vimānavatthu (Vv)
      |   |- Vimānavatthu-aṭṭhakathā (Vv-a)
      |
      |- Petavatthu (Pv)
      |   |- Petavatthu-aṭṭhakathā (Pv-a)
      |
      |- Theragāthā (Thag)
      |   |- Theragāthā-aṭṭhakathā (Thag-a)
      |
      |- Therīgāthā (Thig)
      |   |- Therīgāthā-aṭṭhakathā (Thig-a)
      |
      |- Therāpadāna (Ap1)
      |   |- Therāpadāna-aṭṭhakathā (Ap1-a)
      |
      |- Therīapadāna (Ap2)
      |
      |- Buddhavaṃsa (Bv)
      |   |- Buddhavaṃsa-aṭṭhakathā (Bv-a)
      |
      |- Cariyāpiṭaka (Cp)
      |   |- Cariyāpiṭaka-aṭṭhakathā (Cp-a)
      |
      |- Jātaka (Ja)
      |   |- Jātaka-aṭṭhakathā 1 (Ja-a1)
      |   |- Jātaka-aṭṭhakathā 2 (Ja-a2)
      |   |- Jātaka-aṭṭhakathā 3 (Ja-a3)
      |
      |- Mahāniddesa (Nidd1)
      |   |- Mahāniddesa-aṭṭhakathā (Nidd1-a)
      |
      |- Cūḷaniddesa (Nidd2)
      |   |- Cūḷaniddesa-aṭṭhakathā (Nidd2-a)
      |
      |- Paṭisambhidāmagga (Psm)
      |   |- Paṭisambhidāmagga-aṭṭhakathā (Psm-a)
      |
      |- Milindapañha (Mil)
      |
      |- Nettippakaraṇa (Nett)
      |   |- Nettippakaraṇa-aṭṭhakathā (Nett-a)
      |   |   |- Nettippakaraṇa-ṭīkā (Nett-t)
      |   |- Nettivibhāvinī (Nettv)
      |
      |- Peṭakopadesa (Ptkp)

  ------------------------------------------
  Independent Suttanta Exegeses/Compositions
  ------------------------------------------
      |- Visuddhimagga (Vism)
          |- Visuddhimagga-mahāṭīkā (Vism-t)

================
Abhidhammapiṭaka
================
  |- Dhammasaṅgaṇī (Dhs)
  |   |- Aṭṭhasālinī (As)
  |       |- Dhammasaṅgaṇī-mūlaṭīkā (Dhs-t)
  |           |- Dhammasaṅgaṇī-anuṭīkā (Dhs-at)
  |
  |- Vibhaṅga (Vbh)
  |   |- Vibhaṅga-aṭṭhakathā (Vbh-a)
  |       |- Vibhaṅga-mūlaṭīkā (Vbh-t)
  |           |- Vibhaṅga-anuṭīkā (Vbh-at)
  |
  |- Dhātukathā (Dhk)
  |   |- Dhātukathā-aṭṭhakathā (Dhk-a)
  |       |- Dhātukathā-mūlaṭīkā (Dhk-t)
  |           |- Dhātukathā-anuṭīkā (Dhk-at)
  |
  |- Puggalapaññatti (Pp)
  |   |- Puggalapaññatti-aṭṭhakathā (Pp-a)
  |       |- Puggalapaññatti-mūlaṭīkā (Pp-t)
  |           |- Puggalapaññatti-anuṭīkā (Pp-at)
  |
  |- Kathāvatthu (Kv)
  |   |- Kathāvatthu-aṭṭhakathā (Kv-a)
  |       |- Kathāvatthu-mūlaṭīkā (Kv-t)
  |           |- Kathāvatthu-anuṭīkā (Kv-at)
  |
  |- Yamaka (Ym)
  |   |- Yamaka-aṭṭhakathā (Ym-a)
  |       |- Yamaka-mūlaṭīkā (Ym-t)
  |           |- Yamaka-anuṭīkā (Ym-at)
  |
  |- Paṭṭhāna 1 (Pt1)
  |   |- Paṭṭhāna-aṭṭhakathā (Pt-a)
  |       |- Paṭṭhāna-mūlaṭīkā (Pt-t)
  |           |- Paṭṭhāna-anuṭīkā (Pt-at)
  |
  |- Paṭṭhāna 2 (Pt2)
  |
  |- Paṭṭhāna 3 (Pt3)

  --------------------------------------------
  Independent Abhidhamma Exegeses/Compositions
  --------------------------------------------
      |- Abhidhammāvatāra (Abhv)
      |   |- Abhidhammāvatāra-purāṇaṭīkā (Abhv-pt)
      |   |- Abhidhammāvatāra-abhinavaṭīkā (Abhv-nt)
      |  
      |- Abhidhammatthasaṅgaha (Abhs)
      |   |- Abhidhammatthasaṅgaha-ṭīkā (Abhs-t)
      |  
      |- Abhidhammamātikā (Abhm)
      |   |- Abhidhammamātikā-ṭīkā (Abhm-t)
      |  
      |- Nāmarūpapariccheda (Nrp)
      |  
      |- Paramatthavinicchaya (Pmv)
      |  
      |- Saccasaṅkhepa (Scs)
```

## Statistical summary

From 2,698 fragmented files in the original CSCD collection, now we have only 203 files. Most of documents in the other group (Añña) are excluded, except Visuddhimagga.

### File summary

|  | Vinaya | Suttanta | Abhidhamma | total |
|:---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| main | 8 | 42 | 9 | 59 |
| exegetical | 45 | 68 | 31 | 144 |
| total | 53 | 110 | 40 | **203** |

### Word summary

|  | Vinaya | Suttanta | Abhidhamma | total |
|:---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| main | 33,246 | 136,874 | 18,309 | 163,974 |
| exegetical | 220,286 | 511,567 | 157,961 | 721,700 |
| total | 232,665 | 563,609 | 165,819 | **783,587** |

### Top 50

| Frequency | Term |
|---:|:---|
| 203709 | ti |
| 148314 | ca |
| 141737 | na |
| 109392 | vā |
|  70347 | pana |
|  65021 | hoti |
|  58078 | taṃ |
|  50982 | tattha |
|  49786 | evaṃ |
|  48800 | pe |
|  44761 | kho |
|  44540 | so |
|  39934 | nāma |
|  36724 | hi |
|  35259 | tassa |
|  35039 | vuttaṃ |
|  34935 | te |
|  34509 | bhikkhave |
|  27314 | attho |
|  24920 | ayaṃ |
|  24021 | viya |
|  23520 | tena |
|  22050 | tesaṃ |
|  20729 | atha |
|  20591 | me |
|  20422 | katvā |
|  20195 | yaṃ |
|  20051 | āha |
|  19228 | idaṃ |
|  18912 | dhammaṃ |
|  18852 | tasmā |
|  18788 | dhammā |
|  18441 | yathā |
|  18142 | bhagavā |
|  17897 | uppajjati |
|  17701 | dhammo |
|  17359 | ettha |
|  17204 | paccayo |
|  16747 | yo |
|  16522 | tato |
|  16484 | ekaṃ |
|  16447 | tathā |
|  16305 | attano |
|  16088 | no |
|  15589 | dve |
|  15499 | bhante |
|  15492 | paṭicca |
|  15285 | bhikkhu |
|  13753 | atthi |
|  13393 | idha |

### The longest term

Here is the longest compound found in the exegetical Vinaya group.

> avippavāsasammutisanthatasammutibhattuddesakasenāsanaggāhāpakabhaṇḍāgārika-
cīvarappaṭiggāhakayāgubhājakaphalabhājakakhajjabhājakaappamattakavissajjaka-
sāṭiyaggāhapakapattaggāhāpakaārāmikapesakasāmaṇerapesakasammutīti

## Notes on displaying the data

For XML data, they can be shown in a browser using XSL transformation. The original XML has `tipitaka_latn.xsl` and `tipitaka_latn.css` for this purpose. The files are retained and modified. For the detail of using, please consult other sources.

For HTML/TXT data, they can be shown in preferred styles by using CSS classes. Or they can be modified by text manipulation using regular expressions. The reader in [bhaddacak.github.io/cst](https://bhaddacak.github.io/cst) uses the latter method.

## Notes on textual corrections

The collection has undergone textual corrections after [Tipitaka.org XML](https://github.com/vipassanatech/tipitaka-xml) plus additional treatments from the author. Now the texts have less errors, both in the website and in the Pāli Platform 3's bundle. The report can be seen at [Tipiṭaka Correction Report](https://bhaddacak.github.io/correport).

## Notes on further developments

To all Buddhists and students of Pāli, this collection of texts is highly valuable. It should be made available, reliable, and systematically consistent. With this inauguration, the author hopes that the collection will be improved constantly, not kept untouched as a sacred artifact. The tidier structure we have, the more powerful tools we can create. With powerful tools, the learning will be more fruitful and enjoyable.

So, the author encourages everyone who has capability (or a will to learn new and difficult things) to study the collection and the tools provided, then make them even better.

Typo data and other errors in texts can be sent directly to the author. Or if it is possible, the improvement can be done by *pull request* mechanism.

## Credits

- The original data of Chaṭṭha Saṅgāyana Tipiṭaka come from [tipitaka.org](https://tipitaka.org/romn).

## Licenses

- The programs written in bash-script, sed-script, awk-script, and Perl, as well as the metadata in JSON, are [unlicensed](http://unlicense.org/). They can be used and modified freely.
- The raw XML texts and the products of conversion done by the programs are licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
